---
layout: post
show_date: true
title: "Install MySQL 5.7 on CentOS7"
date: 2022-07-05
categories: coding
img:
tags: [tutorial]
author: cheungwong
Description: "First day work of my internship."
---

> TL;DR: download rpm, import GPG key and yum install.

MySQL 5.7 improves security and performance over previous versions, also introduces the JSON data type, allowing to store non relational data.

## Download repository definition
Download the package by typing the following command (if wget is not installed you can install it by running ```sudo yum -y install wget```):

```
wget https://dev.mysql.com/get/mysql57-community-release-el7-9.noarch.rpm
```

## Install repository definition
```
sudo rpm -ivh mysql57-community-release-el7-9.noarch.rpm
```

## Update
Before installing MySQL, it is recommended to upgrade the OS. Then reboot the system.
```
sudo yum update 
sudo reboot
```

## Install MySQL
```
sudo yum install mysql-community-server
```

## Check MySQL status
Check if the MySQL service is runnin using systemd (systemd is a replacement for SysV system initialization is also a suite of service management and configurations for the GNU / Linux operating system) as shown in the message MySQL service is stopped, note  Active: inactive (dead) line.

```
$ sudo systemctl status mysqld
â— mysqld.service - MySQL Server
   Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/mysqld.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
   Active: inactive (dead)
     Docs: man:mysqld(8)
           http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/en/using-systemd.html
```

## Start MySQL service
After starting the MySQL server it will be ready to handle DB connections.
```
sudo systemctl start mysqld
```
When the service is started the MySQL server MySQL generates a temporary password. We can check the password using following command

```
grep -i password /var/log/mysqld.log 
```
>This characteristic is introduced since MySQL 5.7 out of security.

## Check MySQL status

Again we check the status of the MySQL service, note Active: active (running) line. Now it should be running.

## Automatic Start
With the following command, the MySQL service is started together with the OS.
```
sudo systemctl enable mysqld
```
You can check if MySQL service starts with the OS running:
```
sudo systemctl is-enabled mysqld
```
To disable,
```
sudo systemctl disable mysqld
```

## Basic MySQL security step

After running the above steps we must ensure a basic security, to do this, run the script
```mysql_secure_installation ```.
When asked the "password for root", you should use the temporary password generated by the MySQL Server. When asked to input new password, you should think of a password satisfied with requirements. Default requirements is MEDIUM. 
- LOW Length >= 8 characters.
- MEDIUM Length >= 8, numeric, mixed case, and special characters.
- STRONG Length >= 8, numeric, mixed case, special characters and dictionary file.
>We can check the requirement level with command ```SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'validate_password%'```;

## Run mysql
```
mysql -u root -p
```
